The Project Gutenberg eBook of Cooking with Seven-Up, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Cooking with Seven-Up

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: July 2, 2021 [eBook #65743]

Language: English

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net 

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COOKING WITH SEVEN-UP ***





                            _you’re really_
                                COOKING
                       _when you’re cooking with_
                               SEVEN-UP!


                 for a new dimension in kitchen cookery

                    _Nothing does it like Seven-Up!_

    [Illustration: There’s a place in your kitchen ... for 7up]

Seven-Up can be an exciting new ingredient for those housewives who are
always alert for ways to put “something extra” into their favorite
recipes. The crystal-clear, lively flavor of 7-Up will take on a new
dimension when you do what mealmakers all over the country are doing ...
using 7-Up in recipes for pie crusts, cakes, meat preparation, salads,
desserts, gravies, sauces, and punches.

Your family and guests will quickly notice the sparkling new flavor, the
subtle tang, and the light airiness that 7-Up adds to your favorite
dishes.

  Now you’re really cooking ...
                                          when you’re cooking with 7-Up!




                      Baste your Roasts with 7-Up!


One of the most popular kitchen uses for 7-Up is that of a tangy baste
for meats and fowl. Seven-Up helps to highlight the natural flavor of
the meat.


with BEEF or PORK!

Place your roast in the roaster with lid off until meat is oven-brown.
Use only enough water in roaster to prevent sticking. When ready for
additional liquid, add 7-Up as required, basting at frequent intervals.


with LAMB!

Start your roast or shoulder of lamb with about ¾ cup of water to create
enough steam to last until the meat heats through evenly. Then baste
with two or three (7-oz.) bottles of 7-Up, the number depending on the
size of the roast.


with TURKEY!

Place turkey in roaster with one cup of water (for steaming). After
turkey heats through, baste with three or four (7-oz.) bottles of 7-Up,
depending on size of bird.


with WILD DUCK!

You can get the best out of any wild fowl or game by basting it with
7-Up. Seven-Up takes away any “gamey” taste and still preserves the
natural flavor.




                    For that Special “Party Touch”!


7-UP BRONCOS

  1 cup buttermilk pancake mix
  2 tbsp. corn meal
  1 7-oz. bottle 7-Up
  8 wieners

Combine dry ingredients. Add 7-Up and mix with an egg-beater for 2
minutes. Dip wieners into batter, then fry in deep fat at 350° for 2 to
3 minutes. Insert skewers and serve warm with chilled 7-Up.


7-UP GLAZED HAM

Bake ham in oven at 325° ... 20 minutes per pound. One hour before
finished, remove skin and fat and score top of ham in 1½″ squares.
Insert whole clove in each square. Mix one cup brown sugar and one
tablespoon prepared mustard. Sprinkle and rub into ham. Baste with ½ cup
7-Up. Baste again with 7-Up each 15 minutes until finished.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                       Make Fish a Company Dish!


Here’s an exciting new “catch” for housewives ... 7-Up as a baste for
your favorite fillet. This recipe will tell you how ... your guests will
love it!


7-UP FISH FILLETS

  1 lb. fresh or frozen fish fillets
  ¼ cup 7-Up
  2 tbsp. melted butter or margarine
  ½ tsp. salt
  Dash of paprika
  Cooked or canned asparagus, drained
  Melted butter or margarine
  4 strips pimiento

Thaw frozen fish just enough to separate. Place fillets on greased
broiler pan, 3 inches from heat. Combine 7-Up and butter; pour half over
fish. Sprinkle fish with salt, paprika. Broil 5 minutes. Pour remaining
sauce over fish. Place asparagus in 4 stacks on broiler pan; brush with
butter and top with strips of pimiento.

Broil 3-6 minutes longer until fish flake easily and are golden brown.
Makes four servings.


TARTARE SAUCE

If you like to make your own sauces, here’s a good one for tartare
sauce.

  MIX:
    1 cup mayonnaise
    1 tsp. grated onion
    chopped celery to your taste
    sweet pickle to your taste


                           _Special Hints..._

For an added flair, serve tartare sauce in shells.

                                   •

In broiling, basting, or pan-frying any fresh or frozen fish, use a
bottle of 7-Up. See how 7-Up adds a pleasant lemon flavor and helps to
eliminate unpleasant cooking odors.




                       Here’s a Family Favorite!


    [Illustration: Here is the baked bean recipe to top them all.]


7-UP BAKED BEANS

  1 lb. navy beans
  2 7-oz. bottles 7-Up
  1 can (2½) tomatoes
  6 slices bacon—cut into small pieces
  2 tsp. salt
  ½ tsp. pepper
  1 medium onion—diced
  ½ green pepper—diced
  2 stalks celery—diced
  1 can (8-oz.) tomato sauce
  ½ cup molasses
  ⅓ cup brown sugar
  ½ cup catsup
  1 tbsp. prepared mustard
  1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
  2 tsp. vinegar
  1 can (2-oz.) mushroom pieces

Wash beans and soak overnight in water.

Next morning, drain water; add 7-Up, tomatoes, bacon, salt, pepper,
cover and simmer 1 hour. Add onion, green pepper, celery, tomato sauce,
molasses, sugar, catsup, mustard, Worcestershire sauce, vinegar, cover
and simmer another hour. Then add mushrooms and turn into baking dish.
Bake covered in slow oven (250° F.) for 3 or 4 hours. Remove cover and
bake 1 hour longer.




                      With Popular Packaged Mixes!


Add lightness and airiness by using 7-Up as the liquid ingredient in any
of the many popular “mixes” on the market today. Just add 7-Up in the
amount of liquid called for in the recipe on the box. You will also find
7-Up a welcome ingredient for your own pastry recipes.


7-UP PANCAKES

Pancakes, wheatcakes, hotcakes ... call them what you will ... your
family has a new treat in store when you make them with 7-Up.

  1 egg
  1 tbsp. melted shortening
  5 oz. 7-Up
  1 cup buttermilk pancake mix

Beat egg well, add melted shortening, add 3 oz. of 7-Up, stir in
buttermilk pancake mix, add balance of 7-Up. Makes 8 pancakes.


7-UP ANGEL FOOD CAKE

Never before have you had a cake so light, so airy, so high, and with
such a delightful new flavor.

Just follow the directions on the package of prepared angel food cake
mix. Moisten the egg whites with the same quantity of 7-Up as your
recipe calls for water. Do not chill the 7-Up, use it at room
temperature.


7-UP GINGERBREAD

  1 package gingerbread mix
  1 7-oz. bottle 7-Up, chilled

Follow the directions for making gingerbread—but, instead of adding the
amount of liquid called for in the recipe, add that amount of 7-Up. It
will be the most delicious gingerbread that you have ever tasted ... and
the 7-Up will do much to mellow the spices.




                     For Dad’s “Backyard Barbecue”


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


7-UP BARBECUE SAUCE

Give your barbecue sauces an additional tang by using 7-Up as the
liquid. Use the proved taste-tempter given below—or if you prefer, add
7-Up to your own special recipe.

  1 7-oz. bottle 7-Up
  ¼ cup catsup
  1 tsp. brown sugar
  1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce
  1 tsp. salt
  1 tsp. vinegar
  ¼ tsp. dry mustard
  ¼ tsp. celery seed
  ¼ cup chopped onion
  dash of pepper

Mix the above ingredients. Baste ribs frequently with mixture.


_Special Hint_ ... Here’s how to bring out the flavor of your favorite
barbecue meat—ribs, steak, roast, or chicken. Each time the meat is
turned, baste liberally with 7-Up. It provides a special taste treat—and
helps to tenderize the meat. Use 7-Up barbecue sauce as desired, when
basting.




                       Add “Punch” to your Party!


7-UP SHERBET PUNCH

This popular punch—good the year ’round—is easily and quickly prepared.

  2 qts. sherbet
  24 7-oz. bottles of 7-Up

(Raspberry, pineapple, lemon, lime, orange or cranberry sherbet can 6
used. Try using one qt. lemon sherbet with one qt. of any other flavor.)

Put the two quarts of sherbet in a punch bowl and let stand at room
temperature. Just before serving, when the sherbet is mushy, add the 24
bottles of chilled 7-Up and stir several times. Makes 50 generous
servings.


7-UP FRUIT PUNCH

This unusual punch will add delightful color to your serving table. It’s
wonderful for serving big crowds ... like open house parties, weddings,
and church socials.

  3 qts. unsweetened pineapple juice
  Juice of 8 lemons—or 1 six-ounce can frozen concentrated lemon juice
              diluted with water according to directions on can.
  Juice of 8 oranges—or 1 six-ounce can frozen concentrated orange juice
              diluted with water according to directions on can.
  ½ cup sugar
  1 cup mint leaves (optional)
  1 pint fresh or frozen strawberries quartered
  12 7-oz. bottles of 7-Up

Combine fruit juices, sugar, and mint leaves; chill thoroughly. Just
before serving add 7-Up and strawberries. Pour over large cake of ice in
punch bowl. Float thin slices of lemon or lime. Serves 60 cups.




                       This is Simply Delicious!


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


7-UP DATE NUT LOAF

This one is simply delicious—and as simple as it is delicious. You’ll
find that the subtle 7-Up lemon-and-lime flavor adds to the taste appeal
of the loaf and, at the same time, brings a lightness to this usually
heavy but delectable dessert. You can serve it with a whipped cream.

  1 cup chopped dates
  1 7-oz. bottle 7-Up
  1 tsp. baking soda

Bring dates and 7-Up to a boil, add baking soda and set aside to cool.

  ADD:
    1 cup sugar
    2 tbsp. butter
    1 egg
    1½ cups flour
    ½ cup chopped nuts
    1 tsp. vanilla
    pinch of salt

Beat very well—pour into loaf pan (5 × 9 × 3). Bake 1 hour in a 350°
oven.




                      Start your Meal with These!


Here are some of the ways to give favorite fruit and vegetable juices a
special zip with chilled, sparkling 7-Up.


7-UP and GRAPE JUICE

Pour ½ glass of grape juice. Add chilled 7-Up to fill the glass.


7-UP TOMATO COCKTAIL

Add ½ teaspoon celery salt to one 14-ounce can of tomato juice. Chill
thoroughly. Just before serving combine two 7-oz. bottles of chilled
7-Up with the tomato juice.


7-UP and PINEAPPLE JUICE

Combine equal parts of chilled pineapple juice and 7-Up. Serve at once.


7-UP MELON BALLS

Melon and cantaloupe balls that have been marinated in 7-Up are
delicious meal starters.


                           _Special Hints_...

Use 7-Up for diluting your favorite _frozen_ fruit juice. Add one can of
water to the frozen juice concentrate ... then follow directions on can
and add sufficient 7-Up to make up the total added liquid.

                                   •

When it’s hard to get youngsters to drink orange juice, try them on
orange juice reconstituted with 7-Up.




                         Easy-to-make Desserts!


7-UP EMERALD ISLE FLUFF

An airy party dessert with the lively tang of the lemon-lime flavor of
7-Up.

  ½ lb. marshmallows
  ⅓ cup evaporated milk
  ½ cup 7-Up
  1 cup coconut
  1 cup evaporated milk, chilled until icy
  green food coloring

Melt marshmallows with ⅓ cup evaporated milk over hot water. Stir to
blend. Cool; add 7-Up and ½ cup coconut; chill until thick. Whip
evaporated milk; fold in marshmallow mixture. Tint pale green with food
coloring. Pour into wafer crust. Top with ½ cup toasted coconut. Chill
until set (3 to 4 hours). Serves 9.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


WAFER CRUST

  COMBINE:
    1⅓ cups vanilla wafer crumbs
    ⅓ cup melted butter or fortified margarine

Press in bottom of 8 × 8 × 2 inch pan. Chill thoroughly.




                      For those Summery Salad Days


7-UP in GELATIN

Used with any fruit-flavored gelatin, 7-Up adds a new and delightful
flavor.

  Dissolve any fruit-flavored gelatin in:
    ½ cup of hot water
  add 1½ cups of 7-Up
  fruit or vegetable can be added to taste
  chill until firm


7-UP SALAD DRESSING

Top off your fluffy 7-Up gelatin with this lively dressing.

  ¼ cup flour
  ⅓ cup sugar
  2 tsp. salt
  2 tsp. dry mustard
  2 eggs
  ⅓ cup vinegar
  2 7-oz. bottles 7-Up

Combine thoroughly the dry ingredients in the top of a double boiler.
Stir in eggs. Blend in the vinegar, then the 7-Up. Cook over boiling
water until thick, stirring constantly. Chill. If desired, some whipped
cream may be folded in just before serving.


7-UP CHEESE ASPIC

Seven-Up can be used in any cheese salad. You’ll have guests asking you
for this special recipe.

  1 package lime gelatin
  1 cup hot water
  1 7-oz. bottle 7-Up
  1 tsp. grated onion
  3 oz. processed cheese, cut into small squares
  ½ cup diced celery
  1 tbsp. sliced stuffed olives

Dissolve gelatin in _hot_ water. Add chilled 7-Up and onion. Chill until
slightly thickened. Fold in remaining ingredients. Turn into one-quart
mold; chill until firm. Unmold. Serve on crisp lettuce. Garnish with
tomato wedges and cheese cubes. 6 servings.




                           A Supper-time hit!


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


7-UP CHEESE-FILLED PANCAKES

  2 cups ready-mix for pancakes
  2 eggs, beaten
  2 cups 7-Up
  2 tbsp. melted butter

Combine beaten eggs and 7-Up. Add to pancake ready-mix all at once and
stir lightly. Fold in melted butter. Pour ¾ to 1 cup of batter into a
greased griddle. Bake slowly until golden brown on underneath side
(about 3 minutes). Turn and bake on other side. Place on baking sheet in
moderate oven (350°) to keep warm until all the pancakes are baked. Now
fill each pancake with a generous amount of creamy cottage cheese, then
roll, sprinkle with confectioners’ sugar, and top with strawberry
preserves.




                      New Ways for Old Favorites!


7-UP BAKED SWEET POTATOES

Still hunting for a way to entice the kids into eating sweet potatoes?
Tell ’em you make ’em with 7-Up! And, you can—just follow this easy
recipe.

  6 sweet potatoes (or yams)
  1 cup brown sugar
  1 7-oz. bottle 7-Up
  ½ tsp. salt
  2 tbsp. margarine or butter
  cinnamon or nutmeg

Cook sweet potatoes, or yams, whole (in jackets) in boiling salt water
about 20 minutes. Remove from water, cool slightly and remove skins; cut
into halves. In a heavy skillet, combine brown sugar, 7-Up, salt, butter
or margarine, and a dash of cinnamon or nutmeg. Boil together 5 minutes.
Then add sweet potatoes, place in oven and simmer gently for about 20
minutes, basting occasionally.


7-UP SPICED CRANBERRY SAUCE

Let the subtle lemon-lime goodness of 7-Up give a special flavor-bouquet
to your cranberry sauce.

  2 cups 7-Up
  1½ cups water
  2 inch stick cinnamon
  2 whole cloves
  ¼ tsp. salt
  1 lb. cranberries

Boil all ingredients, except cranberries, in a saucepan for 5 minutes.
Add cranberries and cook uncovered very gently (without stirring) until
they are thick and clear. Skim, then pour into one large—or several
individual—molds which have been rinsed in cold water. Chill until firm.
Unmold to serve. Serves 10.

_Note_ If you prefer a liquid sauce, cook the cranberries for 3-5
minutes until the skins pop, then chill and serve the sauce.




                           For the Holidays!


    [Illustration: This festive holiday punch will be the center of
    attraction.]


7-UP HOLIDAY PUNCH

  1 quart milk
  4 7-oz. bottles of chilled 7-Up
  1 pint peppermint ice cream

Put semi-soft ice cream in punch bowl. Add milk and 7-Up. Stir until ice
cream floats in small pieces throughout. Garnish with maraschino
cherries and mint leaves, if desired. Serves 12.


7-UP HOLIDAY SALAD

  1 pint cranberries
  ½ cup water
  ½ cup sugar
  1 package lemon gelatin
  1 cup hot water
  1 cup 7-Up
  ¼ tsp. salt
  1 cup chopped celery
  1 cup chopped apple
  1 cup chopped nuts

Boil cranberries in ½ cup cold water; then sieve. Add sugar and heat to
dissolve sugar; then cool. Dissolve gelatin in hot water; cool slightly
and add 7-Up; then chill. When partly thickened, add cranberry mixture,
salt, apples, celery, and nuts. Chill until firm; serve on lettuce with
mayonnaise.




                      Makes Pastries Taste Better!


7-UP CAKE

Make a cake with contents of package mix using 7-Up instead of the
liquid in the recipe! White, yellow, spice, chocolate-malt ... all
flavors. You’ll be amazed at how light and airy your cake is.


7-UP ICING

  2 egg whites
  1 cup granulated sugar
  3 tbsp. (1¼ oz.) 7-Up
  ¼ tbsp. cream of tartar

Put all ingredients in the top of a double boiler over boiling water.
Upper pan should not touch surface of water. Beat with rotary beater
(hand or electric) until stiff enough to stand in peaks (about 5
minutes).


7-UP PIE CRUST

  1 cup sifted flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  ¼—⅓ cup shortening
  3 tbsp. chilled 7-Up (about)

Measure flour and salt into bowl. Cut in shortening with a pastry
blender or fork until particles are size of small peas. Add 7-Up
gradually, a few drops at a time, tossing with a fork to distribute
evenly. Press into ball; allow to rest 15 minutes. Roll out on a lightly
floured surface into a circle ⅛″ thick. Fit into a 9″ pie plate. Trim ½″
from edge of pie plate. Fold this under and flute.

Prick pastry with a fork. Bake in a hot oven (425°) about 15 minutes.
Cool and fill.

                                   •

_Special Hint_ ... If you prefer to use a prepared pie crust mix, add
chilled 7-Up instead of water. The crust will be light and deliciously
flaky.




                           Some Handy Hints!


When baking a fruit pie (apple, berry, peach, cherry, or pineapple)
sprinkle four (4) tablespoons of 7-Up over the fruit filling before
putting on the top crust. The lemon-lime piquancy of 7-Up brings out the
flavor of the fruit; the added moisture assures a nice plump pie.

                                   •

For a special party touch, prepare 7-Up “icebergs” for your punch bowl.
Fill a refrigerator tray with 7-Up. Freeze to mush, then place a strip
of cardboard in the tray to make two blocks. Freeze until hard. Then
decorate blocks with lemon slices, cherries, or mint. Float 7-Up
“icebergs” in the punch; the melting “icebergs” don’t dilute the punch.

                                   •

Dried fruits are delicious when cooked in 7-Up. Combine one pound of
dried fruits and two seven-ounce bottles of 7-Up in a sauce pan. Cover
and simmer until tender. Add sugar if needed.

                                   •

Add 7-Up to your meat gravies for a fresh and zesty flavor. The gravy
will be clear and greaseless—it will not require thickening with flour
unless so desired.

                                   •

Give canned fruit cocktail a special “zip”. Drain the juices from the
fruit cocktail, then add 7-Up.

                                   •

Mix chilled 7-Up and cold milk in equal parts by pouring 7-Up gently
into the milk. Do not stir. The addition of 7-Up gives the milk (white
or chocolate) a new flavor appeal especially pleasing to children.




                                At Home ... _Anywhere!_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Seven-Up is at home anywhere! You can use it in cooking ... serve it at
parties ... or enjoy it any time of day when you need a refreshing lift.
And now, more and more women are serving 7-Up _with food_ ... making it
a part of mealtime and party menus.

So, bring a touch of “pure pleasure” to your meals. Make every meal a
picnic ... serve your family and guests 7-Up. You can get it everywhere,
you know ... drug stores ... restaurants ... drive-ins ... all across
America.

    [Illustration: enjoy 7up with your next meal
    at Home ... _Anywhere!_]

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

the all-family drink!

_... a real thirst-quencher_

_... a fresh, clean taste_

_... a quick, refreshing lift_

_Nothing does it like Seven-Up!_

                       © 1957 BY THE SEVEN-UP CO.
                    ST LOUIS, MO    LITHO IN U.S.A.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COOKING WITH SEVEN-UP ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
